[Serve] Add Perf Tuning Doc (#14334)
ray-project/ray: doc/source/serve/performance.rst

Performance Tuning
==================

This section should help you:

- understand the performance characteristics of Ray Serve
- find ways to debug and tune the performance of your Serve deployment

.. note::
    While this section offers some tips and tricks to improve the performance of your Serve deployment,
    the :ref:`architecture doc <serve-architecture>` is helpful to gain a deeper understanding of these contexts and parameters.

.. contents::

Performance and known benchmarks
--------------------------------
We are continuously benchmarking Ray Serve. The metrics we care about are latency, throughput, and scalability. We can confidently say:

> - Ray Serve’s latency overhead is single digit milliseconds, often times just 1-2 milliseconds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Ray Serve’s latency overhead is single digit milliseconds, around 1-2 milliseconds on average.
```

> - For throughput, Serve achieves about 3-4k queries per second on a single machine (8 cores) using 1 http proxy and 8 backend replicas performing noop.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- For throughput, Serve achieves about 3-4k queries per second on a single machine (8 cores) using 1 http proxy and 8 backend replicas performing noop requests.
```

- It is horizontally scalable so you can add more machines to increase the overall throughput. Ray Serve is built on top of Ray, 
  so its scalability is bounded by Ray’s scalability. Please check out Ray’s `scalability envelope <https://github.com/ray-project/ray/blob/master/benchmarks/README.md>`_
  to learn more about the maximum number of nodes and other limitations.

You can check out our `microbenchmark instruction <https://github.com/ray-project/ray/blob/master/python/ray/serve/benchmarks/README.md>`_
to benchmark on your hardware.

> Debug performance Issue

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Debugging performance issues
```

-----------------------

> A typical performance issue in Serve has the symptom of high client call latency and low throughput.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The performance issue you're most likely to encounter is high latency and/or low throughput for requests.
```

> This shows the system is processing fewer queries than desired! 

Reviewer: I'd remove this sentence, redundant with the previous

> If you have set up :ref:`monitoring <serve-monitoring>` with Ray and Ray Serve, you will observe that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have set up :ref:`monitoring <serve-monitoring>` with Ray and Ray Serve, you will likely observe that
```

``serve_num_router_requests`` is constant while your load increases
``serve_backend_queuing_latency_ms`` is spiking up as queries queue up in the background

Given the symptom, there are several ways to fix it.

Choosing the right hardware
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Make sure you are using the right hardware and resources. 
Are you using GPUs (``actor_init_options={“num_gpus”: 1}``) or 1+ cores (``actor_init_options={“num_cpus”: 2}``, and setting ``OMP_NUM_THREADS``)
to increase the performance of your deep learning framework?

Batching
^^^^^^^^
If your backend can process a batch at a time at a sublinear latency 
(for example, if it takes 1ms to process 1 query and 5ms to process 10 of them) 

> then batching is your best approach. Check out the :ref:`batching guide <serve-ml-batching>` to 

Reviewer: Mention that this is often the case for GPU-based ML inference

make your backend accept batches. You might want to tune your ``max_batch_size`` and ``batch_wait_timeout`` to maximize the benefits:

> - ``max_batch_size`` specifies how big the batch should be. Generally, 

Reviewer 2: I can't figure out what's making it bold:  <img width="543" alt="Screen Shot 2021-02-25 at 10 59 01 AM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/5459654/109203000-79d8a280-7758-11eb-9556-aa28dbac6e01.png">
 Maybe rearrange some things and see if it goes away?

Author: ah fixed

   example: suppose it takes 1ms to process 1 query, 5ms to process 10 queries,
   and 6ms to process 11 queries. Here you should set the batch size to to 10 
   because adding more queries won’t improve the performance.
- ``batch_wait_timeout`` specifies how the maximum amount of time to wait before
  a batch should be processed, even if it’s not full.  It should be set according 
  to `batch-wait-timeout + full batch processing time ~= expected latency`. The idea 
  here is to have the first query wait for the longest possible time to achieve high throughput.  
  This means you should set batch-wait-timeout as large as possible without exceeding your desired expected latency in the equation above.

Async functions
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Are you using ``async def`` in your callable? If you are using asyncio and
hitting the same queuing issue mentioned above, you might want to increase 
``max_concurrent_queries``. Serve sets a low number by default so the client gets 
proper backpressure. You can increase the value in the :mod:`backend config <ray.serve.config.BackendConfig>`
to allow more coroutines running in the same replica.

> Scale HTTP servers

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Scaling HTTP servers
```

> Scale HTTP servers

Reviewer: Do we have any good way to diagnose that this is the issue? Can we export some metrics to make it clear?

Author: hmm probably just the CPU utilization for the HTTP servers?
